---
title: Local
description: data and meta are variables specific to the scope of specific elements.
---

The variables that we've discussed so far are relevant for whole tasks or even whole studies.
We now approach variables that have a narrower scope: they have to do with specific elements within your task.
These variables are called *Data* and *Meta*. 

## Data
The *Data* variables allow you to manually set useful information into each element. 
Their behaviour is described fully within as part of element [inheritance](../../inheritance#data).

In the following example, the data set in the 'default' task, is used from within a [template](../../templates) in the sequence.

{{< playground filename=templateData.md >}}
define(['managerAPI'], function(Manager){

  var API = new Manager();

  API.addTasksSet('default', [
  	{
  		type:'message',
  		keys: ' ',
        data: {condition:'using data in templates'}
  	}
  ]);

  API.addSequence([
    {inherit:'default',template:'We are in the "<%= tasksData.condition %>" condition.'}
  ]);

  return API.script;
});
{{< /playground >}}

## Meta
The *Meta* variables hold some meta information regarding this element that is auto-generated by the mixer.
The meta objects have two properties `number` and `outOf`:

Property    | Description  
----------- | -----------
number      | The serial number for this element within the sequence (i.e. 3 if this is the third element to be presented).
outOf       | An attempt to estimate how many elements are in the sequence overall. This number cannot be fully trusted as the number of elements may be dynamically generated and depend on various variables not yet determined.

{{< playground filename=templateMeta.md >}}
define(['managerAPI'], function(Manager){

  var API = new Manager();

  API.addTasksSet('default', [
  	{
  		type:'message',
  		keys: ' ',
        template: 'Task number <%= tasksMeta.number %> out of <%= tasksMeta.outOf %>.'
  	}
  ]);

  API.addSequence([
    {inherit:'default'},
    {inherit:'default'},
    {inherit:'default'},
    {inherit:'default'}
  ]);

  return API.script;
});
{{< /playground >}}

## Naming convention
The naming convention for these variables is `<elementName>Data` and `<elementName>Meta` respectively.
For example, for tasks they appear as `tasksData` and `tasksMeta`. 

The elementNames for the various tasks are as follows:

Task        | elementName | Object names
----------- | ----------- | ------------
miManager   | tasks       | tasksData, tasksMeta
miQuest     | pages       | pagesData, pagesMeta
            | questions   | questionsData, questionsMeta
miTime    | trial       | trialData, trialMeta
            | stimulus    | stimulusData, stimulusMeta
            | media       | mediaData, mediaMeta
